---
layout: post
title: GROUND FLOOR
img: first.png
---

# GROUND FLOOR

If I'm going to try and learn some code stuff, I oughta write out what I'm doing.  Otherwise... odds are I'm going to have to re-learn it 2 days later.

This has been a 'get around to it' thing for awhile.  Go time, now.

# FIRST PROBLEM

There's utility for me to create dated voice memos.  Are there apps to do this? Sure, I'll bet.  Creating my own super simple version gets my brain thinking about the command line.

Apparently, there's a simple command-line app ``arecord`` that can easily record sound.

```
arecord test1.wav
```

Start talking, Ctrl+C, and you have a voice memo ``test1.wav``.

How to make it a bit more usable?  I'll bet there's more than a few features in the ``arecord`` function that could help.  Step one: make the filename automatically prefixed with the current date.

A quick google search tells me there's a command line tool ``date`` to get the current date & time.  If I want this info appended to a file name, I need to format it nicely.

```
man  date
```

Gives me some info.  Too much, really... man pages make my brain feel underwater.  But, towards the bottom there's all sorts of formats.  Ok!  Looks like I'd want something like
``date -F %M%d%Y``  The ``-F`` sets format, the other stuff gives just month-day-year.  Easy, right?  Then I append to my ```arecord`` filename and I'm at the finish line.

```
date -F %m%d%Y

date: invalid option -- 'F'
Try 'date --help' for more information.
```

Okay, so ``-F`` doesn't set format.  I was confused until I realized I now had to go way back up to the top of the page to see how to set the format in the command.  The specific formats are below; the command line syntax is above.  And no examples.  I mean, man pages.  Not loving them.
Anyways, attempt two:

```
date +%m%d%Y
```

Got it!  (notice I switched ``%M`` to the desired ``%m`` There were multiple sub-attempts here, too...)

Time to figure out how to get this output into the command for ``arecord``.



