---
layout: post
title: MY LITTLE SOUND RECORDER
img: arecord1.jpeg
---

# GROUND FLOOR

If I'm going to try and learn some code stuff, I oughta write out what I'm doing.  Otherwise... odds are I'm going to have to re-learn it 2 days later.

This has been a 'get around to it' thing for awhile.  Go time, now.

### ARECORD

It'd be useful for me to create dated voice memos.  Are there apps to do this? Sure, I'll bet.  Creating my own super simple version gets my brain thinking about the command line.

Google tells me there's a simple command-line app ``arecord`` that can easily record sound.

```
arecord test1.wav
```

Start talking, press Ctrl+C to stop, and I have saved a voice memo ``test1.wav``.

### DATE

How can I make it a bit more usable?  Step one: make the filename automatically prefixed with the current date.

A quick google search tells me there's a command line tool ``date`` to get the current date & time.  If I want this info appended to a file name, I need to format it nicely.  From the manual page of ``date``, it looks like something along the lines of ``date -F %M%d%Y`` will give me what I want:  the ``-F`` sets format, the other stuff gives just month-day-year.

```
date -F %m%d%Y

date: invalid option -- 'F'
Try 'date --help' for more information.
```

Okay, so ``-F`` doesn't set format.  I was confused until I realized the specific formats for the date are at the bottom of the manual page; the command line syntax is at the top.  And no examples are given.  Command line manual pages are... not my favorite.  Attempt two, knowing now I need ``+`` to set format:

```
date +%m%d%Y

02042021
```

Got it!  (notice I switched ``%M`` to the desired ``%m`` There were multiple sub-attempts here, too.)

Now, time to figure out how to get this output into the command for ``arecord``.

# ARECORD & DATE

I can reasonably use the ``arecord`` and ``date`` commands.  How to tie them together??  So somewhere deep in my brain, I know there's two things that can help me link commands together: the pipe operator ``|`` and a variable ``$(COMMAND)``.  I'll try the pipe first:  it 'pipes' the output of the first command into the second command.

```
date +%m%d%Y | arecord
```

Yeah, a quick glance at the output says this doesn't work.  It seems that ``arecord`` is looking specifically for a filename with an ``.wav`` extension, so it rejects the formatted date.   My recollection of command line variables is that the construction ``$(COMMAND)`` lets the output of a command 'wear' other stuff... like a ``.wav`` extension.  Let's try:

```
arecord $(date +%m%d%Y)

Recording WAVE '02042021.wav' : Unsigned 8 bit, Rate 8000 Hz, Mono
```
That sound in the file is me going WOOHOO!  I made a dirt-simple sound recorder!

Unwieldy on its own, I need to make it into a stand-alone program on my computer.  Sounds like tomorrow's project.
